# Restful Parameters for apidev

There are currently only a handful of restful parameters used by the various apidev endpoints.
 
The Parm class (defined in parm.php) translates these restful parameters into values of Parm public variables.
In a few cases, for historical reasons, distinct restful parameters  (e.g. 'output' and 'filter') are synonyms (i.e. refer to the same Parm variable).
Some Parm variables are determined indirectly from one or more restful parameters. For example, the value of the Parm variable *key* depends on both the 'key' and 'input' restful parameters.


## output, filter parameters
Synonyms for Parm class attribute 'filter0'.  How should words coded as Devanagari be displayed. For recognized
values see [transcoder](transcoder.md).

The Parm class attribute 'filter' provides a standardized value of 'filter0', using the transcoder_standardize_filter function of transcoder.


## input, transLit parameters
Synonyms for Parm class attribute 'filterin0'.  How citation value is encoded. For recognizedvalues see [transcoder](transcoder.md).

The Parm class attribute 'filterin' provides a standardized value of 'filterin0', using the transcoder_standardize_filter function of transcoder.

## key parameter
Parm class attribute 'keyin'.  The spelling of a citation, normally assumed consistent with the 'input' parameter.

Parm attributes 'keyin1' and 'key' are derived from 'keyin'.
  * If word is English (see 'dict' below), 'keyin1' and 'key' are same as 'keyin'.
  * If word is Sanskrit, then
    * 'keyin1' is the UTF-8 representation of 'keyin' 
    * 'key' is the transcoding of 'keyin1' from the 'input' spelling to 'slp1' spelling.

## dict parameter
The lower case of this parameter is value of Parm class attribute 'dict'. These are the Cologne dictionary codes.
In upper case form, these are  
```
ACC , AE , AP90, BEN , BHS , BOP , BOR, BUR , CAE , CCS , 
GRA, GST , IEG , INM , KRM,  MCI , MD , MW ,  MW72, MWE ,
PE , PGN, PUI , PWG , PW , SCH, SHS , SKD , SNP , STC,
VCP , VEI , WIL , YAT
```

The Parm class attribute 'dictinfo' provides an instance of the Dictinfo class based on Parm.dict [value of Parm class attribute 'dict'].  

The Parm class attribute 'english' is a copy of the dictinfo attribute 'english'  (is dictionary headword English?)

## accent parameter
Parm class attribute 'accent'.  Value should be 'yes' or 'no' (default).  Displays use this to show or hide accents in words coded as Devanagari.

## dispcss parameter
Parm class attribute 'dispcss'.  Value should be 'yes'(default) or 'no'. Used in 'disp.php'.  When 'yes', 
the CSS file [basic.css](../css/basic.css) is loaded as part of the html generated by a getword instance via a call to the 'basicDisplay' function (of disp.php).

There are no current applications which set 'dispcss' to 'no'. See [getword](getword.md) for an example when 'dispcss' has value 'no'.

## term parameter
The getsuggestParms() method returns the  $_REQUEST['term'] parameter in three forms, as used by GetsuggestClass constructor.  The name 'term' is used for consistency with the JQuery autocomplete function; see the *$("#key").autocomplete* code in [simple search](../simple-search/v1.0/list-0.2s.html).  

## page parameter
The servepdfParms() method returns the $_REQUEST['page'] parameter.  This is used by servepdf.php, as well as some other public attributes of a Parm object, to generate a url for the scanned image of a dictionary entry.

## lnum and direction parameters
The listhierParms() method sets the 'lnumin' Parm class attribute from the 'lnum' parameter; this is a Cologne record id for a particular dictionary.  The listhierParms() method also sets the 'direction' Parm class attribute from the 'direction' parameter;  this has a value of UP, DOWN or CENTER (default).  These attributes are used by the ListhierClass constructor in the generation of the list of words displayed by listhier endpoint.

